----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------
PAPER: 3
TITLE: Proof nets for first-order additive linear logic
AUTHORS: Willem B. Heijltjes, Dominic J. D. Hughes and Lutz Straßburger

Overall evaluation: 2 (accept)

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
In this paper a new approach to describing proof nets for first-order additive linear (ALL1) logic is proposed. The proposal follows the ideas of the second author's recent "unification nets" for MLL1. Interestingly, these nets are motivated by a "proof identity" problem which has not received much attention in the first-order case.

Two variants of proof nets for ALL1 are proposed: witness nets (with explicit witnesses for existential quantifiers annotated by substitutions) and unification nets (with explicit witnesses to be recovered by a MGU operation). The latter lead then to identify proofs with distinct explicit witnesses (as far as these have a common MGU).

Correctness criteria are investigated following the "coalescence" and the "slicing" conditions, two well-known approaches to ALL0 proof nets.
A nice feature of both witness and unification nets is that cut-elimination is defined in a local way, in contrast with usual proof nets with quantifiers. This is also a property of unification nets for MLL. For witness nets locality of cut-elimination seems somehow to depend on the restriction to ALL1.

The paper is well-written and the proofs (as far as I could check them) look sound. Two questions which look natural to me but are not addressed in the paper: first, can the equivalence generated by unification nets be justified by some notion of observational equivalence in ALL1? Second, is there any major obstacle to unify the techniques for MLL1 and ALL1 to define MALL1 unification nets?

Another small point: if I understand well both sequent calculus proofs and witness nets are not considered up to usual alpha-equivalence, so that bound variables names become a property of proofs/nets. This looks a bit strange in view of how cut-elimination for first-order logic is usually defined, but I imagine that this works in this context because of linearity (as this impedes that a \forall/\exists links is duplicated, which would force a renaming of bounds variables).